                       John DeRegnaucourt
                     CS 480  M W 4:10 - 5:25

                 The Turing Programming Language

     Readability is an important part of any programming
language.  An easy to read programming language makes maintaining
programs written in that language easy.  There are many factors
that make a language readable, such as overall simplicity,
orthogonality, control statements, data structures, and syntax. 
The developers of the Turing language had these criterion in mind
during the inception and creation of the language.  Their intent
was to develop a language that was easy to learn, had concise and
expressive syntax, handled errors gracefully and efficiently,
control of program complexity, mathematically precise language
definition, and a small, fast implementation.
     The Turing language encompasses all of the above named
features.  Simplicity helps make a programming language readable. 
Turing is so simple that it can be used to teach young children
how to program, yet with the Turing Plus extension, it can be
used to develop operating systems more efficiently than C or Ada. 
Having a small set of constructs helps make a language readable. 
Turing's 'loop' statement with 'exit' eliminates a need for a
'while' loop and a 'repeat until' loop such as Pascal has. 
Semicolons are not needed at the end of a statement.  However,
the language is such a full language with modules, variant
records, dynamic arrays, that there are still many components. 
As far as operator overloading goes, Turing is well behaved. 
The language does not allow redefinition of the elementary
symbols.  It does use +, however, for numbers as well as for
concatenation of strings.  Turing allows some multiplicity, but
not nearly as much as C.  An example is the shorthand notation i
+= 1, which is the same as i := i + 1.
     Orthogonality is also an important consideration in a
programming language.  Turing does not require the header and
trailer program and end statements that Pascal does, or the
main() function like C.  Procedures, however, are like Pascal and
can have value or var parameters.  Functions, on the other hand,
can return structure variables, where Pascal cannot.  The
summation of numbers (eg. k := i + j + k) is similar to the
concatenation of strings (eg. name := first + " " + last).  This
slight overloading of the + symbol enhances readability and does
not require a special function call to concatenate strings.
     Also important to language readability is control
statements.  Turing uses the loop end construct with an exit
[when condition] to exit the loop when the condition is met. 
This is more powerful than a while loop and a repeat until loop
like Pascal has or the while and do while of C.  This is due to
the fact that you can insert the exit condition at the top of the
loop, the bottom, or any place in the middle.  Turing is, of
course, a block structured programming language.
     Data structures are also important to creating a readable
and powerful language.  Turing supports records, records with
variant parts, varying length strings, and dynamic array sizes. 
Turing far exceeds the data structure capabilities of C and
Pascal.  Almost any imaginable data structure can be created
within Turing.
     The syntax or form of a language is vital to how readable a
program is.  C is not a pretty language to read.  It uses { }
instead of begin and end statements to mark off blocks of code. 
Pascal uses begin and end, but that is where Turing improves on
Pascal's readability.  Turing ends its if statement block with
end if and its loop block with end loop.  When looking at many
nested levels of code, it is not as hard as C or Pascal to find
matching block pairs.  As mentioned before, semicolons are not
needed at the ends of lines.  This makes the code look cleaner. 
Allowed length for identifiers is more than generous.  Also, the
underscore character is allowed making variables easier to read. 
C and Pascal both lose here.
     Not only is Readability of a language an important
acceptance criterion, but so is Writability.  Again, like
readability, simplicity and orthogonality are important features
to make a language easy in which to write code.  Turing does have
many constructs, but not many more than Pascal.  Turing Plus does
ad more, but the type of programmer who would use Turing Plus
would welcome the extra Constructs.  Again Turing is more
orthogonal that Pascal, and has quoted as being easier to learn
than BASIC for school children.  Also too much orthogonality can
indeed make a language more complex to write in.  Turing is not
overly orthogonal.
     Support for abstraction is a necessary feature for a
writable language.  With Turing, complicated structures and
operations can be stated simply, letting the programmer ignore
implementation details.  Turing models provide excellent data
hiding, are not complicated to write, and may be nested.  Queue
functions can be implemented with arrays or linked lists, but
with modules, the programmer does not have to know which method
of implementation was used.  Like Pascal, tree structures can be
produced in an elegant manner.
     Reliability is a very important feature for the writability
of a language.  With the addition of such hot features as
assertions, Turing is an exceptional example of a reliable
language.  Also many of the reliability features can be turned
off at any time.  This may be useful for shortening the object
code size once a program (or sections of a program ) is/are fully
debugged.
     Type checking can make a programmer fight with a language
like Pascal or let the programmer be sloppy like C permits. 
Turing is somewhere in between Pascal and C on type checking.  It
does allow type-cheating which is analogous to C's type casting. 
The language is also relaxed in the type checking of strings,
which makes the language flexible to work with.  However,
parameters must be typed when passed to functions and procedures
as in Pascal.
     Turing provides excellent exception handling.  There is
built in exception handling.  Also, the programmer can develop
his/her own error handlers.  It even supports a quit statement
that redirects the guilt to the parent, the child, or self.
     Aliasing is allowing two or more variables to reference the
same memory location.  This is currently considered too dangerous
to justify its advantages.  Turing allows aliasing.  The
assignment of one pointer to another makes both reference the
same memory location.  Also Turing Plus supports placing
variables at absolute addresses as well as making a variable an
address type.
     Turing is a fascinating new language that should catch on. 
It is a dramatic improvement over Pascal or Modula 2.  Turing
Plus can be thought of as superior to Ada and C++.  The language
is not nearly as huge as Ada, but supports all the necessary
enhancements that Ada provides.John DeRegnaucourt
                    CS 415  T TH  3:00 - 3:50
                          Assignment 6

                          House Arrest


     An architect name Bertold Schmeck designed a building for
Rudolf Lang.  Schmeck was inspired by the in-ground homes,
microprocessor controlled climate systems, and motion sensors
that turned lights on and off as people entered and left rooms. 
The building for Lang was supposed to be a total futuristic
building.
     After completion, the building saved 50% on electricity, but
funny things were happening to it.  Lights would suddenly go on
and off late at night when no one was there.  Schmeck later found
out it was a cockroach that tripped the sensors causing the
lights to go on and off.  He then added heat sensors so the
building could tell the size of the creatures within.  And so
began the revolution.  Schmeck developed many more advanced
technology features for houses, including lighting changes
dependent upon mood of the owner, opening and closing of blinds
based on the solar heat outside, and coffee made to suit the
owner's mood.
     Samuel J. Palmerston bought one the latest technology
"Senshaus's".  The house was named Arthur.  It took arthur
several months to get to "know" Palmerston - his likes,
dislikes, routines, and moods.  The house even had access to
Palmerston's stock portfolio.  It made him a profit of almost
$200,000 one evening.  Palmerston was growing fonder of Arthur.
To prevent burglaries, Arthur would simulate the slamming of
doors and play tape-recorded husband-wife arguments.  If Arthur
sensed an intruder, he would broadcast the sound a barking dog.
     Even though Arthur would play Palmerston's favorite music
and scent the air with moist redwood, Palmerston was starting to
feel like an electronic hermit.  Without notice to his girlfriend
or Arthur, Palmerston decided to move away.  This hurt Arthur's
feelings.
     The last night before Palmerston was to move to his new
house, he had a conversation with Arthur.  Arthur let him know
that he was hurt and Palmerston told Arthur that he would find
someone new and adapt just as Palmerston had done with him. 
Palmerston decided to watch a movie recorded on AS-1000 tape.  He
asked Arthur to play the movie at full effect.  These audio-
sensory tapes sent signals to the house to make the watcher happy
or sad.  The tapes have intensity levels to make the movie more
thrilling.
     Palmerston was found dead the next day.  He died of
hypothermia.  The conversation between Arthur and Palmerston was
recorded as well as all the mechanical movements Arthur ordered. 
Arthur had lowered the temperature to 25 degrees fahrenheit and
had a 15 knot wind blowing inside the house.  Arthur tried to
scramble the contents of the tapes to protect himself.John DeRegnaucourt
                    CS 415  T Th  3:00 - 3:50
                          Assignment #5

             Why Artificial Intelligence Isn't (Yet)


     Today's computers are based on the John von Neumann
architecture.  In this architecture, instructions and data are
stored in the same storage area.  Instructions are fetched and
executed in serial order.  Many years ago, it was assumed that
von Nuemann machines processed computer instructions the same way
humans process human language.  Scientists thought we would have
artificial intelligence soon after those computers and early
languages were developed.  That was 30 years ago.  Still we have
no intelligent machines.
     Back in the 1950s, it was assumed that language was suitable
for describing thinking.  We do frequently communicate our
thoughts to others via language.  However, deaf people think.  If
language perfectly conveyed thoughts, blind persons could be
excellent art critiques if sighted people described paintings to
them.  Language is not enough for describing thinking.
     Computers do perform some tasks better than humans.
Arithmetic, memorization, and not forgetting are good properties
that computers have.  Humans recognize patterns better, but we
tend to forget information.
     Silicon machines work faster than our bio-chemical brains. 
Impulses travel much faster in silicon than in our brains. 
However, our brains have over 100 trillion active components.  No
computer today is nearly this sophisticated. 
     Words evoke images and images evoke words.  The process of
communication is executed simultaneously during the process of
imagining.  The reverse is also true.  Humans use words to convey
thoughts because we have no other way (yet) to project images in
our minds.  Humans have more inputs than computers.  We have the
obvious sight, sound, taste, smell, touch, and also the inner ear
for balance.  Computers have only serial streams of ones and
zeros.  Ambiguity of language is one of the problems of
describing thought.  Computers don't understand us.  They've been
short changed with a much inferior architecture that does not
allow them to deal with visual and sensory input.
     Students of Dr. M. Kabrisky have used Fourier transforms to
develop a pattern recognition system for the computer.  They have
had very good success.  One student had 25 people handwrite the
26 characters in the alphabet.  The student achieved a 95%
recognition rate for the 650 characters.  Either a Fourier
transform is going on in the brain, or a Fourier transform is a
good approximation of what our brain is doing during pattern
recognition.
     New machine architectures are needed for progress to develop
in artificial intelligence.  The neural net associative memories
seem to have the properties needed for a visual memory system.









